Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Knowledge-Based Systems
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/knosys

Knowledge guided deep deterministic policy gradient
Peng Qin , Tao Zhao

∗

College of Electrical Engineering, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China

ARTICLE
Keywords:
Knowledge guide
Fuzzy system
Mapless navigation
DDPG

INFO

ABSTRACT
Deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) exhibits excellent handling capabilities for complex regulation
and control problems with continuous state and action spaces. However, its trial-and-error interaction and
learning from scratch require extensive exploration by the agent, leading to low learning efficiency and even
non-convergence in sparse reward environments. To fully utilize knowledge during the learning process to
improve efficiency and performance, this paper draws inspiration from human learning methods and proposes
a semantic knowledge-guided DDPG (KGDDPG) approach. In terms of knowledge representation, considering
the fuzziness and precision of semantic knowledge, a knowledge system based on a rule framework combining
precise propositions and fuzzy propositions is constructed. In terms of knowledge integration, to reduce the
randomness of exploration, a knowledge-guided action strategy based on stacked generalization is proposed.
Furthermore, a supervised-then-reinforced learning method is employed: the "supervised" phase quickly
incorporates prior knowledge to accelerate learning, while the "reinforced" phase refines the policy network
to overcome the limitations of relying solely on prior knowledge. Finally, experiments were conducted using
a mapless navigation task for mobile robots to verify the effectiveness and practical feasibility of the method.

1. Introduction
Navigation technology is a core aspect of mobile robots’ autonomy
and is crucial for achieving efficient and flexible operations. Traditionally, navigation relies on Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
(SLAM) technology [1–3], which enables robots to construct environmental maps in real time using sensor data (e.g., LiDAR, cameras,
inertial measurement units) while simultaneously determining their
positions within the map. However, SLAM methods face significant
limitations in certain scenarios. For instance, in dynamic environments,
rapid environmental changes may render previously built maps outdated, making map updates difficult and time-consuming. Furthermore,
in privacy-sensitive or unstructured environments (e.g., private residences or military bases), relying on pre-built maps is impractical. As a
result, mapless navigation has emerged as a crucial research direction
for mobile robots.
Mapless navigation requires robots to rely solely on sensor inputs
and internal algorithms to perceive their surroundings in real time and
make decisions autonomously. This approach aligns with the characteristics of end-to-end models, which is why reinforcement learning
(RL) has become increasingly popular for mapless navigation tasks [4–
6]. However, existing RL methods face two primary challenges: (1)
Low learning efficiency: Most RL algorithms adopt a learning-fromscratch paradigm, requiring large amounts of data, which makes the

learning process time-consuming. (2) Convergence difficulties: In dense
or complex environments, the random interaction mechanism used in
RL struggles to collect effective data, leading to slow convergence and
suboptimal performance.
To address these issues, this study explores the integration of prior
knowledge into reinforcement learning, aiming to enhance learning
efficiency and accelerate policy optimization. However, developing a
knowledge-guided RL framework involves the following challenges: (1)
Knowledge representation: Existing methods struggle to represent both
precise and fuzzy knowledge simultaneously, necessitating the design
of a hybrid system that combines their advantages. (2) Knowledge
integration: Efficiently embedding prior knowledge into RL frameworks
such as DDPG to improve exploration remains an open problem. (3)
Knowledge limitations: Prior knowledge is inherently uncertain and
may contain inaccuracies, posing the risk of negatively affecting learning performance. Mitigating such risks while leveraging knowledge is
a critical challenge.
This paper proposes a KGDDPG approach to address the above
challenges, making the following contributions:
• (1) This paper draws inspiration from human learning patterns
and extends the traditional DDPG framework. A knowledge system combining fuzzy propositions and precise propositions is

∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: qinpeng2@stu.scu.edu.cn (P. Qin), zhaotaozhaogang@scu.edu.cn (T. Zhao).

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2025.113087
Received 9 October 2024; Received in revised form 8 January 2025; Accepted 25 January 2025
Available online 4 February 2025
0950-7051/© 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

constructed, integrating the characteristics of fuzzy reasoning and
binary logic, thereby improving the limitations of using each
individually. This system is integrated into the existing DDPG
framework, providing a new approach for knowledge-guided reinforcement learning.
• (2) To alleviate the issues of low learning efficiency caused by the
trial-and-error mechanism and the convergence problems brought
about by sparse rewards, a knowledge-guided action strategy
based on stacked generalization is proposed. This strategy integrates the outputs of the knowledge system and the policy network. Compared to the noise-added random exploration method,
it reduces the randomness of exploration, quickly obtains effective
data, and thereby improving learning efficiency and enhancing
convergence.
• (3) To fully utilize prior knowledge and mitigate the limitations
of prior knowledge, a supervised-then-reinforced learning method
is proposed. This method first uses the knowledge system as the
target for supervised learning, enabling the policy network to
fully leverage the knowledge to form a foundation. Subsequently,
autonomous reinforcement learning is employed to overcome the
limitations of the knowledge.

learning-from-scratch approach. These limitations often lead to slow
convergence, especially in sparse reward or complex environments.
Recent studies have explored various improvements, such as combining
DDPG with external knowledge and enhancing exploration strategies,
to address these issues.
2.2. Knowledge representation and integration
In knowledge-guided learning methods, the challenges of knowledge representation and knowledge integration are fundamental to ensuring effectiveness and adaptability. These challenges arise due to the
inherent diversity of knowledge: knowledge can originate from various
sources (e.g., human experience, sensor data, symbolic rules) and exist
in different forms (e.g., structured graphs, unstructured demonstrations, or abstract semantics). Consequently, the representation method
chosen for knowledge directly affects how it can be integrated into
learning algorithms.
Knowledge representation methods in existing research include
demonstration data [13], knowledge graphs [14,15], and symbolic
models [16,17]. Demonstration data, typically obtained from expert
demonstrations, is a widely used method that directly encodes taskspecific expertise. For instance, [13] employed demonstration data to
accelerate learning in robotics tasks, showing its potential to reduce
exploration time. However, this method relies heavily on task-specific
demonstrations, limiting its generalizability. Knowledge graphs, on the
other hand, excel at encoding relationships between entities, making
them particularly effective in reasoning tasks such as recommendation
systems [14]. For example, [15] proposed an enhanced graph-based
approach for state augmentation, which improved decision-making
efficiency in sparse-reward environments. Symbolic models provide an
explicit way to represent environmental dynamics or task rules, as
demonstrated in [16], where symbolic representations were used to
guide exploration in RL. For tasks such as mobile robot navigation,
which are closely tied to human daily activities, humans possess extensive experiential and semantic knowledge. This form of knowledge
serves as a critical resource, offering broad coverage and originating
from diverse scenarios. It can effectively guide robots in similar task
environments and is relatively easy to obtain. However, the aforementioned knowledge representation methods are not well-suited for
representing such experiential and semantic knowledge, limiting their
applicability in these contexts. Since semantic knowledge is an abstract expression of knowledge, although humans can easily understand
it, machines cannot. To represent this type of knowledge, scholars
have proposed binary logic and fuzzy systems. Binary logic excels
at precise reasoning, while fuzzy systems are good at approximate
reasoning and are applied in various fields such as prediction [18,19]
and control [20–22]. Since semantic knowledge has both fuzziness and
precision, combining binary logic with fuzzy systems is expected to
better represent semantic knowledge.
The utilization of knowledge is closely related to its representation.
For demonstration data, common methods of knowledge utilization include behavior cloning [23,24] and inverse reinforcement learning [25,
26]. Behavior cloning directly uses expert actions as label values for
supervised learning, which can easily lead to the limitation of the
model replicating the expert’s strategy. The key to inverse reinforcement learning is to infer a reward function. Since multiple reward
functions may correspond to the same behavior, this inference is uncertain. For knowledge graphs, common utilization methods include state
augmentation or action candidates [14]. State augmentation involves
transforming the state into a more instructive state and expanding
the state dimensions. Action candidates are inferred through multi-hop
reasoning in the knowledge graph to generate some candidate actions.
For symbolic models, a common approach is to symbolically describe
the environment and tasks, providing the agent with information to
complete the tasks [16]. The above methods provide different application approaches based on knowledge representation methods and have

Based on the above work, this study integrates knowledge with
DDPG. By leveraging knowledge guidance, the exploration-interaction
process and the learning process are optimized, enhancing learning
efficiency and convergence, thereby improving the model’s overall
performance. Compared to random exploration strategies, the proposed method incorporates knowledge-guided interaction strategies,
imparting a certain degree of purposefulness to the interaction process.
Furthermore, in contrast to using fuzzy systems or binary logic alone
for knowledge representation, the proposed hybrid knowledge system combines the strengths of both approaches. Compared to general
knowledge-guided methods, this approach not only utilizes knowledge
effectively but also accounts for the limitations of knowledge, helping
to avoid falling into local optima.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2
introduces some related works. Section 3 provides the construction
details of KGDDPG. Experimental setup are conducted and in Section 4.
The results are analyzed in Section 5. Finally, conclusions are drawn in
Section 6.
2. Related work
2.1. DDPG in control and navigation
Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has shown great potential in
solving continuous control problems, where the state and action spaces
are continuous. Among DRL algorithms, DDPG stands out due to its
ability to handle complex control tasks by combining the strengths
of Actor–Critic architecture, experience replay, target networks, and
deterministic policy optimization. This design has enabled DDPG to
achieve remarkable performance in fields such as robotic control [7,
8], navigation [9,10], and autonomous driving [11,12]. For example, a DDPG controller combined with traditional PID control was
proposed for trajectory tracking tasks in mobile robots, leveraging
PID’s stability to complement DDPG’s adaptability [7]. In navigation
applications, the high variance in DDPG’s performance was addressed
by a method that randomly switches between DDPG and PID control,
balancing exploration and stability [9]. In the context of autonomous
driving, a multi-challenge deep learning network was integrated into
the DDPG framework to improve decision-making performance in complex driving environments [10]. Furthermore, a limited-horizon DDPG
algorithm was proposed to enhance training efficiency by introducing stationary approximation and reducing the state space. However,
DDPG also faces challenges, such as inefficient exploration caused by
random noise-based strategies and high data requirements due to its
2

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao
Table 1
Proposition symbol.

achieved good results. However, they do not consider the limitations
of knowledge. As mentioned in [17], human advice may lack sufficient knowledge, leading to uncertainty and incompleteness. Therefore,
while utilizing knowledge, it is also necessary to consider its limitations. A single learning mode often cannot balance both aspects. Hence,
how to fully utilize knowledge while reducing the impact of its limitations remains to be explored. This paper proposes a knowledge-guided
DDPG framework to address these challenges. It integrates a semantic
knowledge system that combines fuzzy and precise propositions to represent experiential knowledge. A stacked generalization-based action
strategy reduces exploration randomness while maintaining task adaptability. By incorporating knowledge into parameter updates through a
supervised-then-reinforced learning approach, the framework ensures
efficient and robust learning.

Symbol

Meaning

𝑃𝑎
𝑄𝑎
𝑃𝑓
𝑄𝑓

Precise conditional propositions
Precise conclusion propositions
Fuzzy conditional propositions
Fuzzy conclusion propositions

proposed in this paper integrates the outputs of the knowledge system
with those of the action policy network. By leveraging the diversity
of models, it effectively reduces abnormal outputs. This reduces the
uncertainty of actions derived from a single model, alleviating issues
of low data collection efficiency, poor data quality, and randomness in
action selection, thereby improving training efficiency.

3. Knowledge guided deep deterministic policy gradient
Remark 3. Feature 3: Combining supervision and reinforcement.
The knowledge-guided parameter update method proposed in this
paper includes a pre-supervised and then reinforcement learning approach for the policy network, and introduces hybrid actions into the
subsequent state–action value calculation. The pre-supervised approach
helps the agent quickly learn and establish a foundation, alleviating
the slow convergence of the action value network, thereby accelerating
the convergence of the policy network. Subsequently, the agent’s autonomous interaction learning, independent of the knowledge system,
can effectively avoid the limitations of the knowledge system. Additionally, since the update of the action value network depends on the
action value of the subsequent state, and the policy network has high
randomness in the early stages, it is not conducive to the update of the
action value network. In contrast, introducing hybrid actions, which are
superior to the policy network in the early stages, into the subsequent
state–action value calculation is beneficial for the convergence of the
action value network.

3.1. Overall structure
Semantic knowledge is a type of knowledge with abstract concepts.
In existing research on knowledge utilization, semantic knowledge
is typically represented by fuzzy systems. However, semantic knowledge encompasses both fuzziness and precision, making it difficult for
general fuzzy systems to represent effectively. Therefore, this paper
proposes a hybrid knowledge representation method that combines
the representation capabilities of both fuzzy and precise knowledge.
Additionally, integrating knowledge into the policy learning method is
the most direct way to influence the reinforcement learning process.
Since the DDPG method mainly includes action selection and value
function learning, the proposed method primarily integrates knowledge
directly into the policy learning process, focusing on knowledge-guided
action exploration and knowledge-fused policy updates. The overall
framework, as shown in Fig. 1, consists of three main components:
the hybrid knowledge system, the knowledge-guided action strategy,
and the policy update method. The framework operates in two main
stages: interaction and parameter updates. In the interaction stage, state
information (e.g., LiDAR point clouds, target position relative to the
robot, and the previous action) is collected from the environment. This
state 𝑠 is input to both the policy network, which generates action
𝑎𝜇𝜃 , and the knowledge system, which produces action 𝑎𝑘𝑠 . These
actions are combined into a fused action 𝑎𝐺 through a generalization
process and used to interact with the environment. The parameter
update stage involves updating the policy network, the generalizer,
and the value network. The policy network is updated first through
supervised learning using outputs from the knowledge system, followed
by reinforcement learning. The generalizer is updated by maximizing
the value function of hybrid actions, and the value network is updated
using the TD error of the fused actions. Detailed explanations of these
processes are provided in later sections. Some of their characteristics
are outlined as follows:

3.2. Knowledge representation
In knowledge-guided reinforcement learning, diverse knowledge
sources range from systematic to empirical knowledge, including the
semantic knowledge targeted in this paper, which possesses both precision and fuzziness. To effectively represent such knowledge, this paper
proposes a hybrid representation method that incorporates precise and
fuzzy propositions into a rule-based framework. The following will
elaborate on the details of this representation method.
3.2.1. Condition and conclusion proposition
Based on the precision and fuzziness of knowledge, propositions can
be categorized into precise propositions and fuzzy propositions. Precise
propositions have deterministic semantics, such as ‘‘The sun is luminous’’ or ‘‘x = a’’. In contrast, fuzzy propositions have indeterminate
semantics, such as ‘‘This person is elderly’’ and ‘‘The current speed is
fast’’. In these examples, the descriptions ‘‘elderly’’ for age or ‘‘fast’’ for
speed carry fuzzy meanings. According to the above descriptions, the
conditions and conclusion propositions can be defined as Table 1.

Remark 1. Feature 1: Fuzzy and Precise Knowledge Representation.
Traditional binary logic has strong reasoning capabilities for handling precise knowledge but lacks the ability to process fuzzy knowledge. Conversely, fuzzy systems excel in fuzzy reasoning processes
but are less effective in handling precise knowledge. In contrast, the
knowledge representation method proposed in this paper integrates the
characteristics of both approaches, enabling effective representation of
both precise and fuzzy knowledge. This makes it applicable to a wider
range of task scenarios and knowledge types.

3.2.2. Knowledge rules
From the reasoning of the above condition and conclusion propositions, basic rules can be formulated. Considering that the condition
and conclusion propositions may consist of multiple sub-propositions,
and assuming that the sub-propositions are independent of each other,
the condition and conclusion propositions are described in the form of
sets, where 𝑛 represents the number of sub-propositions.
{
𝑃 = {𝑃1 , 𝑃2 … 𝑃𝑛 }
(1)
𝑄 = {𝑄1 , 𝑄2 … 𝑄𝑛 }

Remark 2. Feature 2: Multi source action fusion interaction.
Traditional noisy action exploration strategies exhibit high randomness, which may lead to a large number of invalid states during
training. This not only results in low data collection efficiency but also
poor data quality. In contrast, the knowledge-guided action strategy

Additionally, based on the precision and fuzziness of propositions,
knowledge rules can be categorized as follows:
3

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 1. The diagram of general structure of KGDDPG.

1. Precise rules: That is, both the condition propositions and conclusion propositions are precise propositions, such as ‘‘When there is
an obstacle in front of the robot, the robot stops’’ or ‘‘When 𝑥 > 𝑎,
𝑦 = 𝑏’’. This type of knowledge is represented as (2).

represented as (5).
{ 𝑘
{𝑃𝑓 1 , … , 𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑛 } ⇒ {𝑄𝑘𝑎1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑎𝑛 } ∪ {𝑄𝑘𝑓 1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑓 𝑛 }
𝑘
𝐹ℎ𝑞
∶
𝑘
𝑘
{𝑃𝑎1
, … , 𝑃𝑎𝑛
} ⇒ {𝑄𝑘𝑎1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑎𝑛 } ∪ {𝑄𝑘𝑓 1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑓 𝑛 }

𝑘
𝑘
𝑘
𝐹𝑎𝑘 ∶{𝑃𝑎1
, 𝑃𝑎2
...𝑃𝑎𝑛
}⇒{𝑄𝑘𝑎1 , 𝑄𝑘𝑎2 ...𝑄𝑘𝑎𝑛 }

Condition and Conclusion Hybridization: Both the condition and
conclusion propositions include precise and fuzzy propositions. For
example, ‘‘When 𝑥1 = 𝑎 and 𝑥1 is large, 𝑦1 is large, 𝑦2 = 𝑐’’. This can be
represented as (6).

(2)

where 𝐹𝑎𝑘 represents the 𝑘t h precise rule, 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑘 represents the 𝑖t h precise
sub-condition proposition of the 𝑘t h rule, and 𝑄𝑘𝑎𝑖 represents the 𝑖t h
precise sub-conclusion proposition of the 𝑘t h precise rule.
2. Fuzzy rules: The condition propositions and conclusion propositions of fuzzy rules are both fuzzy propositions, such as ‘‘When the
robot is far from the target, the robot’s speed can increase’’ and ‘‘When
the robot’s speed is fast and the road ahead is narrow, the robot’s speed
needs to decrease’’. This type of knowledge is represented as (3).
𝐹𝑓𝑘 ∶ {𝑃𝑓𝑘1 , 𝑃𝑓𝑘2 ...𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑛 } ⇒ {𝑄𝑘𝑓 1 , 𝑄𝑘𝑓 2 ...𝑄𝑘𝑓 𝑛 }
𝐹𝑓𝑘

𝑘
𝑘
𝐹ℎ𝑘 ∶ {𝑃𝑓𝑘1 , … , 𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑛 } ∪ {𝑃𝑎1
, … , 𝑃𝑎𝑛
}

⇒{𝑄𝑘𝑎1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑎𝑛 } ∪ {𝑄𝑘𝑓 1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑓 𝑛 }.

(5)

(6)

3.2.3. Knowledge inference
For precise condition sub-propositions, due to their binary, their
activation strength can be expressed as (7).
{
( )
1 𝑖𝑓 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑘 TRUE
𝑓 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑘 =
(7)
0 𝑖𝑓 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑘 FALSE

(3)

𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑖

where
represents the 𝑘t h fuzzy rule,
represents the 𝑖t hfuzzy subcondition proposition of the 𝑘t h rule, and 𝑄𝑘𝑓 𝑖 represents the 𝑖t h fuzzy
sub-conclusion proposition of the 𝑘𝑡ℎ fuzzy rule.
3. Hybrid rules encompass both fuzzy and precise propositions.
Based on different hybridization methods, they can be categorized as
follows:
Condition Hybridization: The condition propositions include both
precise and fuzzy propositions. For example, ‘‘When the robot is to the
left of an obstacle and close to it, the robot’s direction deviates to the
left’’ and ‘‘When the robot is to the left of an obstacle and close to it,
the robot’s direction deviates by a fixed angle to the left’’. This can be
represented as (4).
{ 𝑘
𝑘
𝑘
{𝑃𝑓 1 , … , 𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑛 } ∪ {𝑃𝑎1
, … , 𝑃𝑎𝑛
} ⇒ {𝑄𝑘𝑎1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑎𝑛 }
𝑘
𝐹ℎ𝑝 ∶
(4)
𝑘
𝑘
𝑘
𝑘
{𝑃𝑓 1 , … , 𝑃𝑓 𝑛 } ∪ {𝑃𝑎1 , … , 𝑃𝑎𝑛 } ⇒ {𝑄𝑘𝑓 1 , … , 𝑄𝑘𝑓 𝑛 }

Thus, the activation strength of proposition 𝑃𝑎𝑘 is (8).
𝑓 (𝑃𝑎𝑘 ) =

𝑛
∏
( )
𝑓 𝑃𝑎𝑖𝑘

(8)

𝑖=0

For fuzzy condition propositions, due to their fuzziness, the calculation method of membership degree in fuzzy systems is adopted. The
strength of sub-propositions can be expressed as (9).
𝑓 (𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑖 ) = 𝜇𝐴 (𝑥𝑖 )

(9)

where 𝑥𝑖 is the subject variable in proposition 𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑖 , and 𝐴 is the
corresponding fuzzy set. According to the above formula, the activation
strength of proposition 𝑃𝑓𝑘 is (10).

Conclusion Hybridization: The conclusion propositions include both
precise and fuzzy propositions. For example, ‘‘When 𝑥 = 𝑎, 𝑦1 is large,
𝑦2 = 𝑐’’ and ‘‘When 𝑥 is large, 𝑦3 is small, 𝑦4 = 𝑑’’. This can be

𝑛
( ) ∏
( )
𝑓 𝑃𝑓𝑘 =
𝑓 𝑃𝑓𝑘𝑖
𝑖=0

4

(10)

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Based on the above analysis, the inference results of precise rules,
fuzzy rules, and hybrid rules are as (11).
⎧𝐹 𝑘 𝑦 = 𝑓 (𝑃 𝑘 ) ∗ 𝑄𝑘 = {𝐹 𝑘 𝑦 } ∪ {𝐹 𝑘 𝑦 } ,
𝑐
𝑛𝑢𝑚
𝑎
⎪ 𝑎
( 𝑎)
{𝑎
} {𝑎
}
⎪𝐹 𝑘 𝑦 = 𝑓 𝑃 𝑘 ∗ 𝑄𝑘 = 𝐹 𝑘 𝑦
𝑘
𝑓
𝑓
𝑓 𝑛𝑢𝑚 ∪ 𝐹𝑓 𝑦𝑐 ,
⎪ 𝑓
(11)
( ) [
⎨
]
( )
⎪𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦 = 𝑓 𝑃𝑎𝑘 ∗ 𝑓 𝑃𝑓𝑘 ∗ 𝑄𝑘𝑎 ∪ 𝑄𝑘𝑓
⎪
{
} {
}
⎪
= 𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚 ∪ 𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦𝑐 .
⎩
where 𝐹𝑎𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚 , 𝐹𝑓 𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚 , and 𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚 represent the numerical parts of
the inference results for the three types of rules, which can be subjected
to mathematical operations. (𝐹𝑎𝑘 𝑦𝑐 ), (𝐹𝑓 𝑘 𝑦𝑐 ), and (𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦𝑐 ) represent the
conditional parts of the inference results for the three types of rules,
which cannot be subjected to numerical operations and can only serve
as filtering conditions for the numerical results.
In summary, for a knowledge system encompassing multiple rules
of the aforementioned different types, it can be represented as (12).
𝑘𝑠∶{𝐹𝑎1 , 𝐹𝑎2 ...𝐹𝑎𝑛 } ∪ {𝐹𝑓1 , 𝐹𝑓2 ...𝐹𝑓𝑗 } ∪ {𝐹ℎ1 , 𝐹ℎ2 ...𝐹ℎ𝑙 }

Fig. 2. Stacked generalization.

(12)

as the agent may spend a lot of time exploring irrelevant or lowreward states and actions. Additionally, this approach lacks guidance
and does not direct the exploration process based on experience or
environmental characteristics, making it difficult for the agent to effectively find the optimal policy. To address this issue, this paper proposes
knowledge-guided action exploration.
Through the previously constructed knowledge system, we have
obtained a mapping between key states and actions, from which corresponding actions can be inferred. Essentially, this results in a strategy
based on prior knowledge. Compared to a randomly initialized policy
network, this strategy is more guiding within a certain scope. Therefore, combining the two approaches can reduce the randomness of
action generation, making the interaction process more guided. The
key challenge, however, is how to effectively fuse these two elements.
In this paper, we employ stacked generalization to achieve this fusion.
Stacked generalization is a widely used and effective method in the field
of model ensemble [28,29]. It combines the outputs of various base
models through weighted averaging, thereby enhancing the accuracy
of the final results. Typically, it consists of two layers: the first layer
contains the base models, and the second layer is the generalization
layer, as shown in Fig. 2.
The knowledge system, the action policy network and the target
action policy network in this paper can be regarded as distinct models.
They yield actions 𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇𝜃 and 𝑎𝜇𝜃̄ , respectively. These actions are then
input into the generalizer to obtain the fused action as (16).
{
𝑎𝐺 = 𝐺(𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇 𝜃)
(16)
̄
𝑎𝐺𝜃̄ = 𝐺(𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇 𝜃)

where 𝑖, 𝑗 , 𝑙 represent the number of rules of the three different types,
respectively. According to (11), the output of the propositions of the
knowledge system can be obtained as (13).
𝑘𝑠𝑦 =

𝑛
∑

𝐹𝑎𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚 +

𝑘=1

𝑠.𝑡

𝑛
⋃
𝑘=1

𝐹𝑎𝑘 𝑦𝑐

𝑗
⋃
𝑘=1

𝐽
∑

𝐹𝑓𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚 +

𝑘=1
𝑙
⋃

𝐹𝑓𝑘 𝑦𝑐

𝑙
∑
𝑘=1

𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦𝑛𝑢𝑚
(13)

𝐹ℎ𝑘 𝑦𝑐

𝑘=1

The construction of the above knowledge system requires transforming knowledge into the form of IF-THEN rules and appropriately setting
it within the scope of the task domain. For example, ‘‘when there is an
obstacle on the left side of the mobile robot, it will move to the right’’
can be translated as if 𝑥 < 0.3, then 𝑤 > 0, where 𝑥 represents the state
and 𝑤 represents the action. 𝑥 < 0.3 is a precise conditional proposition,
𝑤 > 0 is a precise conclusive proposition, and 0.3 is determined based
on the domain of the actual task.
3.3. Knowledge utilization
Similar to other reinforcement learning methods, the core of the
KGDDPG algorithm still includes two parts: exploration and exploitation. The methods of exploration and exploitation significantly influence the learning process and the final policy. Therefore, how to
integrate prior knowledge into both exploration and learning is key to
constructing KGDDPG. The following will explain how to combine the
knowledge system constructed in the previous section with DDPG to
achieve the embedding and utilization of knowledge.

where, G is a generalization layer function, usually constructed by
neural networks. The structure and parameters of the network vary
with the number of basic models, and its parameters are obtained
through training.
Since there are only two models, the fused action can be simplified
as (17), with the parameter 𝜃𝐺 initialized empirically based on the level
of trust in the knowledge.
{
𝑎𝐺 = 𝑎𝐺 (𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇𝜃 ) = 𝜃𝐺 𝑎𝜇𝜃 + (1 − 𝜃𝐺 )𝑎𝑘𝑠
(17)
𝑎𝐺𝜃̄ = 𝑎𝐺 (𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇𝜃̄ ) = 𝜃𝐺 𝑎𝜇𝜃̄ + (1 − 𝜃𝐺 )𝑎𝑘𝑠

3.3.1. Knowledge guided action strategy
Since DDPG is trained in an off-policy manner to obtain a deterministic policy, the actions obtained for a deterministic policy are
deterministic each time. Therefore, it is impossible to obtain sufficiently broad and useful action information. The earliest solution was
to add some Ornstein–Uhlenbeck (OU) noise to the actions [27] . The
mathematical expression of the OU process is as (14).
𝑑 𝑥𝑡 = 𝑏(𝑚 − 𝑥𝑡 )𝑑 𝑡 + 𝑣𝑑 𝑊

(14)

where 𝑥𝑡 is the current process value, 𝑏 is a positive number, 𝑚 is the
long-term mean, 𝑣 is the standard deviation of the noise, and 𝑑 𝑊𝑡 is a
random differential term following a standard normal distribution. In
practice, it is simulated by discrete time steps, where 𝜉𝑡 is a random
number.
√
𝑥𝑡+1 = 𝑥𝑡 + 𝑏(𝑚 − 𝑥𝑡 )𝛥𝑡 + 𝑣 𝛥𝑡𝜉𝑡
(15)

The parameter 𝜃𝐺 needs to continuously change with the learning
of the policy network 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) to increase the proportion of 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) in the
output. The goal of the mixed action policy is to establish a better
policy compared to the initial 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) and the knowledge system. The
parameter 𝜃𝐺 can also be updated by maximizing the action value
function 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎). The optimization objective is (18). Where  is the
sample dataset and 𝑠 is the state.

Although the above methods are easy to implement, the exploration
process is random. In some cases, this may lead to reduced efficiency,

𝐿(𝜃𝐺 , ) = −E [𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎𝐺 )]
𝑠∼

5

(18)

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

According to (13), the output of the knowledge system consists of
two parts, a numerical value and a condition. To facilitate computation,
in cases where the final result only includes the numerical part, the
numerical values are padded according to the output dimensions and
directly fused with the output of the policy network. The action used
for interacting with the environment is (19).
√
𝑎𝑡 = 𝜃𝐺 𝑎𝜇𝜃 + (1 − 𝜃𝐺 )𝑎𝑘𝑠 + 𝑥𝑡 + 𝑏(𝑚 − 𝑥𝑡 )𝛥𝑡 + 𝑣 𝛥𝑡𝜉𝑡
(19)

These two learning approaches are integrated, with adjustments and
transitions managed through the parameters of a hybrid policy. The
final optimization objective is given by (27).
[
𝐿′′ (𝜃 , ) = E −𝜃𝐺 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃))
𝑠∼
(27)
[
]2 ]
+ (1 − 𝜃𝐺 + 𝜃𝑇 ) 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) − 𝑎𝐺 (𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇𝜃 )
Here, 𝜃 𝑇 is a fixed parameter, and its value depends on the level of
trust in the knowledge system. If it is not zero, it indicates that even
when 𝜃𝐺 = 1, there is always a certain proportion of supervised components in the policy network updates. For highly reliable knowledge
systems, it is appropriate to retain a certain proportion of supervision.
The supervised learning component of the loss function ensures that
the policy network learns a reliable action strategy guided by the
knowledge system, reducing exploration randomness and improving
learning stability. The reinforcement learning component allows the
policy network to explore and adapt to the environment dynamics further. By combining these two components, the policy network is able to
leverage both the knowledge system’s expertise and the environment’s
feedback, leading to a more robust and effective policy.

3.3.2. Parameter updates in integrating supervised and reinforcement learning
DDPG learns both the action-value function 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) and the action
policy 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃). The 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) is updated by minimizing the Mean Squared
Bellman Error (MSBE) as shown in (20).
[
]2
𝐿′ (𝜔, 𝐷) = E 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) − (𝑟 + 𝛾max𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝑎′ ))
(20)
𝑆∼

𝑎′

where 𝑆 is the sampled data tuple, 𝜛 represents the parameters of the
target network, and 𝜔 represents the parameters of 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎). The target
network is softly updated using the Polyak averaging method, as (21)
(21)

𝜛 ← 𝜌𝜛 + (1 − 𝜌)𝜔

3.4. KGDDPG algorithm

For the DDPG method, due to the deterministic nature of the
action policy, the target action in (20) is not determined by the maxī Therefore, the
mum 𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝑎′ ) value, but directly derived from 𝜇(𝑠′ |𝜃).
objective function is rewritten as (22).
𝐿′ (𝜔, 𝐷) = E

𝑆∼𝐷

[

]
̄ 2
𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) − (𝑟 + 𝛾 𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝜇(𝑠′ |𝜃)))

In summary, the overall algorithm flow of KGDDPG is shown in the
Algorithm 1.

(22)

Algorithm 1 Knowledge Guide Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient
Given: Policy network 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) with parameters 𝜃, 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) parameters
𝜔, 𝑎𝐺 (𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇 ) parameters 𝜃𝐺 , empty replay buffer 
Set target parameters equal to main parameters: 𝜃̄ ← 𝜃, 𝜛 ← 𝜔
for episode = 1, 2, ..., 𝑀 do
Observe initial state 𝑠
for t = 1, 2, ..., 𝑇 do
√
select action 𝑎𝑡 = 𝜃𝐺 𝑎𝜇𝜃 + (1 − 𝜃𝐺 )𝑎𝑘𝑠 + 𝑥𝑡 + 𝑏(𝑚 − 𝑥𝑡 )𝛥𝑡 + 𝑣 𝛥𝑡𝜉𝑡
Execute action 𝑎𝑡 and observe reward 𝑟𝑡 and new state 𝑠𝑡+1
Store transition (𝑠𝑡 , 𝑎𝑡 , 𝑟𝑡 , 𝑠𝑡+1 ) in 
if 𝑠𝑡+1 is terminal then
Reset environment state
end if
if time to update then
Sample a batch of transitions (𝑠𝑖 , 𝑎𝑖 , 𝑟𝑖 , 𝑠′𝑖 ) from 
Update 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) based on 𝐿′ (𝜔, ) (Eq. (23)).
Update 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) based on 𝐿′′ (𝜃 , ) (Eq. (27)).
Update 𝑎𝐺 (𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇𝜃 ) based on 𝐿(𝜃𝐺 , ) (Eq. neqrefeq3.3.8).
Update target network with
𝜛 ← 𝜌𝜛 + (1 − 𝜌)𝜔, 𝜃 ← 𝜌𝜃̄ + (1 − 𝜌)𝜃
end if
end for
end for

̄ depends on a single
In the aforementioned method, 𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝜇(𝑠′ |𝜃))
network, which introduces uncertainty. The performance is significantly influenced by the single network, potentially affecting the convergence speed of the training process and even leading to instability.
The previous work utilized a hybrid action selection strategy constructed with a knowledge system and policy network 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) to interact
with the environment. This hybrid action strategy can be directly used
̄
as an estimate for max𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝑎′ ), replacing the original 𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝜇(𝑠′ |𝜃)).
𝑎′

This approach leverages the diversity of different models, reducing the
uncertainty of a single network and improving the training process.
Consequently, the final loss function is (23).
𝐿′ (𝜔, ) = E

𝑆∼

[
]2
𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) − (𝑟 + 𝛾 𝑄𝜛 (𝑠′ , 𝑎𝐺𝜃̄ ))

(23)

Policy learning is conducted under the guidance of 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎). Assuming 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) is differentiable with respect to each action, it can be
optimized through gradient ascent. The optimization objective is (24).
[
]
𝐿′′ (𝜃 , ) = − E 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝜇(𝑠|𝜃))
𝑠∼

(24)

with the gradient given by (25).
∇𝜃 𝐿′′ ≈ −

𝑁
1 ∑
∇ 𝜇(𝑠 |𝜃)∇𝑎 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠𝑖 , 𝑎)|𝑎=𝜇(𝑠𝑖 |𝜃)
𝑁 𝑖=1 𝜃 𝑖

(25)
4. Simulation and experimental setup

In the aforementioned method, parameter updates are conducted
solely under the guidance of 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎). Considering the presence of
the knowledge system, 𝑄𝜔 (𝑠, 𝑎) can be combined with the guidance
provided by the knowledge system. Specifically, we aim for the policy
network to quickly learn the behavior of the knowledge-based policy
through supervised learning, with its loss function defined as (26).
2
𝐿′′
𝑠 (𝜃 , ) = E [𝜇(𝑠|𝜃) − 𝑎𝐺 (𝑎𝑘𝑠 , 𝑎𝜇𝜃 )]
𝑠∼

This paper aims to utilize hybrid knowledge to guide the learning
process of DDPG, thereby improving learning efficiency and overall
performance. To verify the effectiveness and feasibility of the proposed
method, simulation and real-world experiments were conducted using
mapless mobile robot navigation as the validation task. The simulations were based on the Gazebo platform, and the experiments were
conducted on the TurtleBot3 mobile robot platform. Three different
test environments were constructed for both platforms, varying in complexity and size to ensure diversity. This section will describe the environments, MDP formulation, knowledge system, and implementation
details.

(26)

As learning progresses, and taking into account the limitations of the
knowledge-based policy, the policy network is further trained based
on reinforcement learning. In this stage, the loss function is defined
as (24).
6

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 4. Experimental environment.

Table 2
Knowledge rule for Env1.
Num

Knowledge

0
1
2

If the target is on the left, turn left (fuzzy knowledge)
If the target is on the right, turn right (fuzzy knowledge)
If there is an obstacle less than 0.3 m in the forward direction, stop
(precise knowledge)
If the vehicle is facing the target and there are no obstacles ahead,
move forward (hybrid knowledge)

Fig. 3. Simulation environment.
3

4.1. Environment
of nearby obstacles and free space.
(2) Relative Target Position: Deviation angle and distance between
robot and target point
(3) Previous Action: The agent’s action from the last step (angular
and linear velocity) is included to help the policy learn temporal dependencies, adding 2 dimensions. This results in a total of 94 dimensions
in the state space.
Action Space: The action output includes angular velocity and linear
velocity. The angular velocity range is constrained to (−1.0, 1.0) using
the tanh function. The forward linear velocity range is constrained to
(0, 0.5) using the sigmoid function.
Reward Function: The reward function is designed to encourage the
robot to efficiently and safely navigate toward the target while avoiding
collisions. It consists of four components:

4.1.1. Training environment
The training environments are shown in Fig. 3. Fig. 3(a) depicts
an open environment without obstacles, requiring the mobile robot to
quickly reach a designated area. Fig. 3(b) introduces several square obstacles placed densely, requiring the mobile robot to navigate through
narrow spaces with multiple obstacles. Fig. 3(c) presents a more complex but wider environment compared to the previous scenarios, requiring the mobile robot to navigate in a complex environment. Fig. 3(d)
presents an even more challenging scenario with a significantly higher
number of densely distributed obstacles, simulating a high-density
obstacle field. This environment requires the robot to make precise
decisions while avoiding obstacles in tight spaces. The diversity of environments allows the proposed method to be validated from different
perspectives.

⎧𝑟
𝑖𝑓 𝑑𝑡 < 𝑅𝑇 𝐻
⎪ 𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑐 ℎ
⎪𝑟𝑐 𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 𝑖𝑓 𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑥𝑖 < 𝐶 𝑇 𝐻
⎨
⎪(𝑑𝑡−1 − 𝑑𝑡 )𝑝𝑟
⎪𝑟
⎩ 𝑜

4.1.2. Experimental environment
The experimental environments are shown in Fig. 4. Fig. 4(a) and
(b) replicate the simulation environments (a) and (b), respectively, to
directly validate the performance of the trained model when deployed
on an actual robot. Fig. 4(c) represents a more open experimental
environment, testing the model’s continuous navigation capability in
an open space, thereby validating the model’s generalization ability.
Fig. 3(d) features a dense obstacle environment, verifying navigation
capability in narrow environments

(28)

where 𝑑𝑡 is the distance to the target point, min𝑥𝑖 is the minimum
value of the LiDAR point cloud, 𝑝𝑟 is a proportional parameter, and
𝑟𝑜 is the reward for each step taken. RTH and CTH are the reaching threshold and collision threshold, respectively. The reward design
aims to balance safety and goal-reaching efficiency. A large positive
reward 𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑐 ℎ incentivizes the agent to reach the target. A significant
negative reward 𝑟𝑐 𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 discourages unsafe behavior near obstacles. A
proportional reward encourages the agent to reduce the distance to the
target in each step. A small penalty 𝑟𝑜 prevents the agent from taking
unnecessary steps or stagnating.

4.2. MDP formulation
In this paper, the navigation problem is modeled as a MDP with the
following components:
State Space: The state input is designed to capture the agent’s
perception of the environment, the relative position of the target, and
its historical actions. It includes the following:
(1) LiDAR Point Cloud Data: The robot perceives its surroundings
through LiDAR sensors, with the point cloud sampled every 4 degrees,
resulting in 90 dimensions. This provides the agent with a detailed view

4.3. Knowledge system for train
We have constructed corresponding knowledge rules based on different scenarios, as shown in the Tables 2 and 3.
7

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao
Table 3
Knowledge rule for Env2 and Env3.

Table 4
Parameter setting.

Num

Knowledge

Items

Value

0
1
2

If the target is on the left, turn left (fuzzy knowledge)
If the target is on the right, turn right (fuzzy knowledge)
If there is an obstacle less than 0.3 m in the forward direction, stop
(precise knowledge)
If the vehicle is facing the target and there are no obstacles ahead,
move forward (hybrid knowledge)
If the vehicle is close to an obstacle on the left, shift to the right.
(fuzzy knowledge)
If the vehicle is close to an obstacle on the right, shift to the left.
(fuzzy knowledge)
If there is an obstacle in front of the vehicle and the target is on
the left, turn left,if the target is on the right, turn right (hybrid
knowledge)

min_buffer_size
optimizer
𝛾
𝜏
𝐸𝑃
Buffer_size
batch_size
max_steps
𝜃𝐺
𝜃𝑇

1500
Adam lr:0.0001
0.99
0.05
600(Env1) 6000(Env2, Env3 and Env4)
100 000
256
200(Env1) 350(Env2, Env3 and Env4)
0.1
0.5(Env1, Env4) 0(Env2, Env3)

3
4
5
6

Fig. 6. Experimental process.

4.4.2. Experimental details
To validate the effectiveness of the proposed method in a real system, relevant experiments were conducted. The experimental platform
and experimental process are shown in Fig. 6. The main hardware
components of the TURTLEBOT include two XL430 drive motors, a
control board OpenCR, a Raspberry Pi, a battery, an IMU, and an rpA1
LiDAR sensor. The maximum speed is 0.22 m/s, and the maximum
angular velocity is 2.84 rad/s. The trained model is directly deployed
onto the robot, which receives and samples data from the LiDAR,
publishes the target point, autonomously calculates the angular and
linear velocities, and records the robot’s trajectory, number of arrivals,
and number of collisions.

Fig. 5. Actor-Critic Network.

4.4.3. Baseline
1. DDPG: DDPG uses an actor-critic framework for continuous
action spaces, with deterministic policies and target networks for
stability.
2. TD3: TD3 improves DDPG by addressing Q-value overestimation
using two critics, delayed updates, and action noise smoothing.
3. PKDDPG [30]: PKDDPG incorporates a fuzzy controller to probabilistically guide interaction, leveraging external knowledge to
improve performance.
4. RSSAC [31]: RSSAC enhances SAC by incorporating reward
shaping to improve learning efficiency and task performance.

Remark 4. The knowledge in Env2 and Env3 inherits part of the
knowledge from Env1. Despite changes in the environment, this portion
of knowledge remains applicable, highlighting a significant difference
from purely data-driven knowledge. This demonstrates the abstract
expression capability of semantic knowledge.

4.4. Implementation details
4.4.1. Training details
The network structure is shown in Fig. 5. The input to the actor network is 94-dimensional, followed by 5 fully connected layers with ReLU
activation, and the output is 2-dimensional. The speed is constrained
to the range [0,1] using the sigmoid function, and the acceleration is
constrained to the range [−1,1] using the hyperbolic tangent function.
The critic network is used to predict the value of actions, with
inputs of 94-dimensional state and 2-dimensional action. These inputs
are merged after a single dense layer and then passed through 4 fully
connected layers with ReLU activation.
All networks are trained using the Adam optimizer in PyTorch on
an NVIDIA RTX 3060 GPU. The hyperparameters used in this paper are
listed in Table 4.

5. Results and discussion
To specifically compare the results of different methods, the following metrics were adopted.
(1) Learning Efficiency: Measured by the number of episodes required to reach the threshold of task success rate.
(2) Success Rate: The ratio of the robot reaching the target without
collision within the timeout threshold.
(3) Path Efficiency: The ratio of the actual path length traveled by
the robot to the total shortest path length from the starting position to
each target point.
8

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 7. Train for Env1.

Fig. 8. Train for Env2.

Due to the randomness of target points during the training process and the large training volume, it is inefficient to calculate path
efficiency. Therefore, path efficiency is only calculated during the
experiments.

In summary, the proposed method effectively maximizes the role
of supervised learning under the condition of complete knowledge, allowing the learning process to transition smoothly. Guided exploration
under the knowledge system can effectively overcome the drawbacks
of random exploration strategies, significantly reducing the number of
exploration steps and enabling the rapid collection of high-quality data,
thereby improving learning efficiency.

5.1. Training results
5.1.1. Env1
The environment is an open space without obstacles, which is
advantageous for random exploration and facilitates the convergence
of the agent. Fig. 7(a) illustrates the relationship between task success rate and the number of episodes. It can be observed that the
proposed method quickly reaches 100%, demonstrating higher learning
efficiency compared to other methods. This is because the prior knowledge fully meets the task requirements, enabling the policy network to
rapidly acquire the knowledge with the help of supervised learning.
Additionally, the lower success rate of TD3 compared to DDPG in
the early stages is due to its inherent delayed update strategy, which
leads to slower policy updates, resulting in a large number of collision
terminations. This hinders effective exploration and prevents the rapid
acquisition of effective data.
Fig. 7(b) shows the average reward curve. The curve of the proposed
method starts with a high reward because the prior knowledge is
suitable for the task requirements. Under the supervision, the policy network learns the prior knowledge and gradually increases its
proportion of interactive actions until it smoothly transitions to autonomous exploration. This demonstrates the positive effect of the
supervised learning component on the agent’s learning process. It indicates that, given the completeness and adaptability of the knowledge,
the proposed method can achieve stable learning.
Fig. 7(c) illustrates the variation in training steps. The interaction
steps corresponding to the proposed method increase steadily with
the number of episodes, indicating that the agent does not engage in
extensive random exploration for different task points. Instead, it performs guided exploration under the influence of the knowledge system,
resulting in relatively stable policy network outputs. In contrast, the
interaction steps of DDPG rise rapidly in the early stages, suggesting
that the agent conducted extensive random exploration under the randomized exploration strategy. TD3, on the other hand, shows a delayed
increase in interaction steps compared to DDPG, which is due to TD3’s
inherent delayed update strategy affecting the early exploration process
and data collection.

5.1.2. Env2
In this environment, obstacles are added near the robot’s starting
point, forming a surrounding space. Compared to Env1, this environment better tests the effectiveness of various methods. The analysis
is similarly based on task success rate, average reward curve, and
interaction steps.
Fig. 8(a) shows the task success rate curve with a sliding window
of 100. The success rate of KGDDPG peaks before 300 episodes, with a
significant increase before 150 episodes, followed by a decline between
150 and 300 episodes. This phenomenon is a result of the interaction
between the knowledge system’s outputs and the environment. In the
early stages, the dominance of the knowledge system’s outputs leads
to an increase in success rate before 150 episodes. However, due to
the incompleteness of the prior knowledge, which is only applicable to
a limited number of scenarios in this environment, and the reduced
proportion of knowledge system outputs, the existing action policy
becomes insufficient to ensure task success, resulting in the decline
in success rate between 150 and 300 episodes. The subsequent steady
increase in task success rate indicates that the policy network begins
to interact independently with the environment and learns efficiently.
Compared to DDPG and TD3, the proposed method shows a steady
rise in success rate during the later stages, which can be attributed
to the foundational policy formed during supervised learning. The
results confirm that the proposed method can leverage the foundational
role of prior knowledge while avoiding the limitations imposed by
the knowledge’s constraints, thereby positively impacting the agent’s
learning process.
The average reward curve in Fig. 8(b) follows a similar trend to the
task success rate, further corroborating the previous conclusions. It can
also be observed that the reward values of DDPG and TD3 are very low
before 300 episodes, which is attributed to the robot moving away from
the target during random exploration.
The number of steps for training shown in Fig. 8(c) differs from
in ENV1. Compared with DDPG and TD3, the proposed method has
9

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 10. Average reward for Env4.

Table 5
Runtime and success count for Env4.

Runtime (s)
Success Count

TD3

PKDDPG

RSSAC

KGDDPG

11 288
3037

17 441
2569

30 118
2065

10 194
3344

In summary, the training results across all environments indicate
that the improvement in the learning process by the proposed method
is influenced by the completeness of the knowledge. The more complete
the knowledge, the greater the guiding effect of the knowledge. Even
with incomplete knowledge, the proposed method can still effectively
utilize the knowledge and overcome its limitations. This confirms that
the proposed method’s guided interactions using knowledge enhance
learning efficiency and improve model convergence.

Fig. 9. Train for Env3.

more interaction steps. By combining the task success rate and average
reward curve, it can be inferred that this is due to the robot completes
more tasks in the range of 1000 to 3000 episodes, resulting in a higher
number of corresponding interaction steps.
In summary, the results in Env2 further corroborate the conclusions
drawn from the test results in Env1. This further demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method in utilizing knowledge and overcoming
the limitations of knowledge, as well as its role in improving learning
efficiency.

5.1.4. Env4
This environment is more complex, with denser and more numerous obstacles, challenging the robot to navigate narrow passages. It
simulates real-world conditions to evaluate the algorithm’s adaptability
and robustness. Metrics such as average reward, success rate, total
successes, and runtime were recorded for comparison.
Fig. 10 presents the average reward curves. Since the RSSAC method
uses reward shaping inconsistent with the rewards in this paper, it is
excluded from the comparison. The yellow curve shows an initial peak,
which, based on observations, results from early interaction guided by
knowledge, leading to some successful episodes and higher rewards.
The subsequent dip reflects the limitations of the knowledge and the
increasing influence of autonomous interaction, which temporarily reduces performance. Between 600 and 2000 episodes, TD3’s average
reward is generally higher than KGDDPG’s. However, this does not
indicate better performance, as the goal of navigation is reaching the
target, and rewards do not fully reflect success rates. Fig. 11 shows that
KGDDPG achieves a higher success rate during this period, suggesting
that TD3 prioritizes higher rewards, while KGDDPG, guided by external
knowledge, focuses on reaching the target. PKDDPG, which switches
strategies with a fixed random probability, has less impact on the
learning process, resulting in lower rewards than TD3 and KGDDPG
but eventually converges after sufficient interaction.
Fig. 11 shows an early peak in the yellow curve, confirming the role
of prior knowledge in guiding initial interactions. From 600 to 3000
episodes, the success rate increases rapidly, indicating faster learning,
which is attributed to the influence of knowledge on the learning
process. RSSAC shows steady improvement until around 2500 episodes,
but then stagnates, likely due to limitations in its reward function.
After smoothing the success rate curve, we recorded the runtime
of each method based on the highest average success rate achieved
by RSSAC, as shown in Table 5, to evaluate the actual learning time
required to reach the same success rate. Additionally, the total number
of successful goal reaches was also recorded.
From the table, it is clear that the proposed method reaches the
same success rate in the shortest time, indicating higher learning efficiency. Furthermore, the proposed method also achieves the highest
success count, reflecting its superior overall performance.

5.1.3. Env3
This environment increases the difficulty compared to Env2 to
further test the effectiveness of the method. Due to the complexity
of the environment and the density of obstacles, the robot can easily
get trapped in local environments during interactions, making it more
challenging for the model to converge.
The task success rate curve of KGDDPG in Fig. 9(a) shows a small
slight before 300 episodes, similar to the peak observed in Env2.
However, the peak is smaller because, in a more complex environment,
the scenarios where the knowledge system is applicable are further
reduced, highlighting the limitations of the knowledge. Subsequently,
the policy network learns through autonomous interactions based on
the foundation formed by supervised learning. Compared to TD3, the
improvement in the success rate curve is not significant due to the
substantial limitations of the knowledge system, which does not provide much useful information to the policy network. However, it still
offers some assistance. The success rate of DDPG is almost zero because
DDPG frequently collides in dense environments, resulting in fewer and
lower-quality data, which prevents it from converging.
The average reward curve in Fig. 9(b) is similar to the task success
rate curve. Notably, the reward curve for DDPG shows that the robot
mostly receives negative rewards, explaining why its model does not
converge: random exploration fails to obtain effective data, preventing
the policy network from being effectively updated. This results in poor
interaction actions, creating a cycle that ultimately leads to model nonconvergence. The partial effectiveness of external knowledge also helps
break this cycle, enhancing the ability to converge.
The training steps shown in Fig. 9(c) indicate that the proposed
method involves the highest number of interaction steps, similar to the
reasons for interaction steps in Env2. Specifically, DDPG has the fewest
steps due to frequent collisions with the environment, resulting in fewer
interaction steps.
10

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 13. Env1 test.
Fig. 11. Success rate for Env4.

Fig. 12. Ablation analysis of knowledge contribution.

Remark 5. The proposed method’s advantage is also highly dependent on the completeness of prior knowledge: in environments with
complete prior knowledge (e.g., Env1), the method outperforms TD3,
while in more complex environments with less complete knowledge,
the advantage is less pronounced. Thus, the method’s performance
improves with more complete prior knowledge.
Fig. 14. Env2 test.

5.1.5. Ablation analysis of knowledge contribution
To analyze the contribution of the knowledge components in our
method, we conducted ablation studies. During training, we separately
removed the Knowledge-Guided Action Selection strategy (KGAS),
Knowledge-Guided Learning (KGL), and overall Knowledge Guidance
(KG). The success rate of each ablation candidate relative to the
proposed method was recorded every 100 episodes, as shown in Fig. 12.
The results indicate that removing KG leads to a significant 80%
decrease in success rate during the early exploration phase. This is
because the absence of knowledge guidance causes random exploration
to result in frequent collisions, severely hindering training efficiency.
KGL plays a pivotal role in parameter learning, as its removal leads to
knowledge forgetting in the mid-to-late training stages, resulting in a
24% drop in success rate. In contrast, removing KGAS shows only a
slight 7% reduction in success rate during the initial phase. This minor
impact is because, although KGAS is removed during interaction, its
effects are partially retained through KGL. The results of KGL and KG
also indirectly highlight the significant role of KGAS during the early
exploration phase. In summary, the ablation study clearly demonstrates
that each knowledge component contributes to the learning capability of KGDDPG. These components work collaboratively at different
stages of training, ensuring the overall efficiency and robustness of the
proposed method.

5.2.1. Env1
The success rate in this environment reveals that all three methods
perform well. Comparatively, the proposed method slightly outperforms the others. The average reward curve indicates that the proposed
method exhibits less fluctuation, suggesting that the model is more
stable and performs more consistently across different target points (see
Fig. 13).

5.2. Simulation test result

5.2.2. Env2
In this environment, the test success rate of KGDDPG is higher than
that of TD3 and DDPG, with a significant improvement compared to
DDPG. Although KGDDPG has a high success rate, its average reward
is lower than that of TD3. From the trajectory length, it can be seen that
the total trajectory length of TD3 is the longest at 53 m, while that of
KGDDPG is the shortest at 27 m, indicating that TD3 adopts a strategy
of moving away first and then approaching the target point, thereby
obtaining more rewards. Additionally, the total trajectory length indirectly reflects that KGDDPG has the highest path efficiency. From the
step curve, it can be seen that the total number of steps for KGDDPG
is 3689, while that for TD3 is 3020. Combined with the difference in
trajectory length, it can be inferred that TD3 outputs a larger speed
command and consumes more. In summary, the proposed method’s
action strategy demonstrates excellent performance in terms of success
rate, path efficiency, and reward acquisition (see Fig. 14).

To test the trained models, 100 diverse target points different from
the training scenarios were generated. In the three aforementioned
environments, the models with the best performance, as indicated by
the average reward curve during training, were selected for testing. The
results are as follows.

5.2.3. Env3
The test results of Env3 are shown in Fig. 15. Due to the increased
complexity of this environment compared to Env2, DDPG did not
converge. Both KGDDPG and TD3 achieved good success rates, with
KGDDPG having a higher success rate. The average reward curve of
11

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 15. Env3 test.

Fig. 17. Trajectory residual image for experiment 1.

Table 7
Target for experiment 2.

Table 6
Target for experiment 1.
Target

x
y

0.6
0.6

1.2
0.6

1.8
0.0

1.2
−0.6

Target

x
y

0.8
0.7

1.8
0.2

1.1
−0.7

0.7
0.1

0.0
−0.3

in each experiment conducted in this scenario. The results indicate
that all three methods successfully completed the three tests. However,
the completion details and specific performances varied significantly.
Fig. 18(b) illustrates the trajectories of DDPG in the three experiments,
with the third trajectory showing a noticeable curve between the 4th
and 5th target points. Fig. 18(c) displays the trajectories of TD3, revealing that TD3’s strategy tends to follow smoother paths between target
points. In contrast, the KGDDPG strategy tends to favor the shortest
path between two points, which closely mirroring with the behavior
of the knowledge system. This can be attributed to the completeness of
the knowledge during the Env1 training, allowing the policy network to
effectively replicate the characteristics of the knowledge-based strategy
through supervised learning. To quantitatively evaluate the performance of the three methods, path efficiency was calculated, as shown in
Fig. 18(e). The figure demonstrates that KGDDPG achieves the highest
path efficiency, confirming its superior performance in Experiment 1.
The higher path efficiency is also a result of the knowledge-based
strategy, as the knowledge in Env1 favors the shortest path.

Fig. 16. Success rate for Env4 test.

Axes

Axes

0.6
0.0

KGDDPG is also higher than that of TD3, indicating that the proposed
method’s model has better performance.
5.2.4. Env4
To further highlight the advantage of our method over TD3, we
conducted additional simulations by extracting models from different
training episodes and testing them multiple times in the simulation
environment, as shown in Fig. 2. From the results, we observed that
the success rate of the proposed method increases significantly over
training episodes, exceeding 60% within 3000 episodes. In contrast,
TD3’s success rate consistently remains lower than that of KGDDPG
within the same number of training episodes. This demonstrates that
KGDDPG achieves higher learning efficiency compared to TD3, which
is one of the key objectives of our design (see Fig. 16).

5.3.2. Experiment 2
In this experimental scenario, four cylindrical obstacles were added
to the experimental area, as shown in Fig. 4(b). This scenario simulates
the training environment but differs significantly in terms of the size of
the area and the positions and sizes of the obstacles. Consequently, the
returned lidar data also differ greatly from the training environment.
The selected target points are listed in Table 7.
In this scenario, the trajectory residual images of three methods in
one experiment are shown in Fig. 19. The success rates of the three
methods are shown in Fig. 20(a). The KGDDPG strategy successfully
completed the experiments, whereas the average success rate for DDPG
was 0.4, and for TD3, it was only 0.27. This indicates that the KGDDPG
strategy has better generalization performance and stronger adaptability to scenarios different from the training environment. Fig. 20(b)
shows the trajectories of DDPG in the three experiments: in the first
experiment, only the third target point was reached; in the second
experiment, only the 2nd and 5th target points were reached; and in
the third experiment, the 2nd, 4th, and 5th target points were reached.
Fig. 20(c) shows the experimental trajectory of TD3. Among the three
experiments of TD3, only the first target point was reached in the
first experiment; only the 2nd target point was reached in the second
experiment; and the 1st and 5th target points were reached in the third

5.3. Experimental result
To verify the feasibility of the proposed method in practical tasks,
experiments were conducted in three different scenarios, with three sets
of repeated experiments for each scenario. The results are as follows.
5.3.1. Experiment 1
This experiment was conducted in an obstacle-free area, which
different from the simulated training environment. The entire area
measures 2.4 by 1.8 m, and there are no enclosing walls around it. As
shown in Fig. 4(a), the selected target points are listed in Table 6.
Fig. 17 shows the trajectory residual images of three methods in
one experiment. Fig. 18(a) shows the success rate of the three methods
12

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

Fig. 19. Trajectory residual image for experiment 2.

Fig. 18. experiment 1.

experiment. Since DDPG and TD3 did not complete the tasks, path
efficiency could not be calculated for them. Therefore, only the path
efficiency of KGDDPG was calculated, which was 0.65. In summary,
the KGDDPG strategy demonstrates better performance.
The higher success rate of KGDDPG can be attributed to the guidance provided by the knowledge system during training, which enhanced learning efficiency, allowing the model to learn faster and
achieve greater stability within the same training time. In contrast, the
poor performance of DDPG and TD3 reflects their models’ sensitivity
to state distribution. Although the experimental environment shares
similarities with the training environment, differences in the size, distance, and arrangement of obstacles, as well as the presence of other
objects, resulted in significant variations in the state distribution, which
negatively affected the performance of DDPG and TD3.

Fig. 20. Experiment 2.

Table 8
Target for experiment 3.
Axes

Target

x
y

0.1
1.0

1.0
0.2

2.2
1.0

4.0
0.5

5.0
1.2

Since DDPG did not converge in Env3 and failed to complete this
experiment, it is not included for reference. Therefore, this experiment
only presents the data for TD3 and KGDDPG. The success rates are
shown in Fig. 21(a), where the KGDDPG strategy successfully completed all three experiments. In contrast, the average success rate for
TD3 was 0.6. This indicates that the KGDDPG strategy has better generalization performance and stronger adaptability to unknown scenarios.
Fig. 21(b) shows the trajectories of TD3 in the three experiments: in
the first experiment, only the 4th target point failed; in the second
experiment, only the 2nd and 4th target points failed; and in the
third experiment, the 3rd, 4th, and 5th target points all failed. In the
three experiments with KGDDPG, all target points were successfully

5.3.3. Experiment 3
This experiment did not deliberately set up a specific scenario but
instead tested the performance of different methods in an environment completely different from the training environment, as shown
in Fig. 4(c). We used the best models obtained from the training
environment in Env3 for the experiments. The selected target points
are listed in Table 8.
13

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao
Table 9
Summary of experimental data.
Algorithm

Experimental
scenario

Single
success rate

Average
success rate

Path
efficiency

DDPG

1
2
3
1
2
3
1
2
3

1.0/1.0/1.0
0.2/0.4/0.6
𝑋/𝑋/𝑋
1.0/1.0/1.0
0.2/0.2/0.4
0.8/0.6/0.4
1.0/1.0/1.0
1.0/1.0/1.0
1.0/1.0/1.0

1.0
0.4
𝑋
1.0
0.27
0.6
1.0
1.0
1.0

0.59
𝑋
𝑋
0.61
𝑋
𝑋
0.69
0.65
0.54

TD3

KGDDPG

Table 10
Target for experiment 4.
Axes

Target

x
y

0.8
0.7

1.1
0.3

2.2
1.2

2.7
−0.5

1.5
−0.6

Fig. 21. Experiment 3.

completed, but there was a significant trajectory deviation between the
3rd and 4th target points. Since TD3 did not complete all the tasks,
path efficiency could not be calculated for it. Therefore, only the path
efficiency of KGDDPG was calculated, which was 0.54. The experiment
was conducted in an open environment with no significant obstacles
along the path. Although KGDDPG was not specifically trained in such
an environment, it successfully completed all the experiments, which
can be attributed to its better robustness in handling this type of
target points. On the other hand, the performance of TD3 was limited,
indicating that it faced challenges in adapting to unfamiliar aspects
of the environment. Additionally, KGDDPG exhibited some trajectory
deviation between the third and fourth target points, but the overall
trend remained stable. This deviation can be attributed to sensor noise.
In summary, compared to TD3, the results highlight KGDDPG’s superior
adaptability and robustness in navigating novel environments.
The experimental results of the three scenarios are summarized in
Table 9. Where 𝑥 represents no data or value that cannot be calculated.
From the perspectives of task success rate and path efficiency, the proposed method’s strategy performed excellently in all three experimental
scenarios, demonstrating better results compared to other methods. The
experimental results validate the effectiveness and feasibility of the
KGDDPG method.

Fig. 22. Trajectory residual image for experiment 4.

From Fig. 23, it can be observed that the TD3 method successfully
reached the first and third target points, but issues with the remaining points occurred primarily during the turning phases, often due
to large turning radii resulting in collisions. This can be attributed
to limited generalization, as the actual environment is smaller and
more densely populated with obstacles compared to the training environment, making the turning behavior learned in training unsuitable
for direct application in the real environment. The PKDDPG method
reached the second, third, and fifth target points. However, for the
first point, the direction was correct but the robot did not maintain the
appropriate distance from obstacles. At the fourth point, after changing
direction, the robot did not immediately turn toward the target but
instead moved toward the lower-right area, only redirecting toward

5.3.4. Experiment 4
To further evaluate the real-world performance of different methods, an additional experiment was conducted in a more realistic environment featuring a greater number of obstacles. The experimental
environment setup is illustrated in Fig. 4(d), where we selected five
target points for testing, as shown in Table 10. The real-world trajectories corresponding to these targets are presented in Fig. 22, and the
complete recorded trajectories for all methods are depicted in Fig. 23.
14

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

This supports the conclusion that KGDDPG’s final policy behavior is influenced by both the reward function and prior knowledge, highlighting
the unique characteristics of the proposed method.
These results demonstrate that the proposed KGDDPG method consistently outperforms other approaches in terms of overall performance,
particularly in environments with increased complexity. While RSSAC
achieved a similar success rate, its less efficient trajectories highlight the advantages of KGDDPG in balancing success rate and path
efficiency. This further validates the practical effectiveness of the proposed method under more complex real-world conditions, reinforcing
its applicability in challenging scenarios.
6. Conclusion
This paper explores how to utilize knowledge to guide the learning
of agents, thereby enhancing their learning efficiency and performance.
It primarily addresses key issues such as the representation of knowledge with both fuzzy and precise meanings and the integration of
knowledge into the existing DDPG framework. A pre-supervised and
then reinforced learning method with a multi-source action fusion
strategy is proposed. Compared to the noise-introducing random exploration mechanism, the knowledge-integrated action strategy can
reduce exploration randomness to a certain extent. Additionally, the
pre-supervised and then reinforced learning method leverages existing
knowledge while avoiding the limitations of introducing knowledge.
Finally, extensive simulations and experiments on the mapless navigation task of mobile robots validate the effectiveness and feasibility of
the proposed method. However, the method also has some limitations.
The knowledge system in this paper still faces significant challenges
in converting high-level semantics into specific outputs, making it
difficult for agents to truly understand high-level semantics. Therefore,
improving the construction of knowledge rules to make the system
adaptable to a wider range of multimodal knowledge has important
research prospects. Future work will focus on integrating multimodal
knowledge into the agent’s decision-making process, inspired by recent advances in Transformer-based models. We aim to explore how
different modalities, such as text, images, and logical reasoning, can
be unified into a shared feature space to guide agent behavior. Our
future research will investigate using pre-trained Transformer models
fine-tuned for specific tasks or developing hybrid models that combine
vision and language-based reasoning, laying the foundation for more
adaptable reinforcement learning systems capable of tackling a wide
range of tasks and environments.

Fig. 23. Trajectory for experiment 4.

Fig. 24. Trajectory for experiment 4 (1).

the target once a significant angle was formed. This is due to the
insufficient influence of the angular deviation in the state on the action
output. While RSSAC successfully completed all target points, it showed
significant trajectory curvature at the second, fourth, and fifth points,
which could be a result of the model’s turning function converging
to a local optimum. In contrast, KGDDPG clearly outperformed the
other methods, demonstrating stable performance in both turning and
traveling. This can be attributed to the enhanced learning efficiency
under knowledge guidance and the fact that supervised learning helped
the policy network maintain key characteristics of the knowledge-based
strategy during autonomous interactions.
To mitigate the uncertainty in real-world experiments, we conducted additional navigation experiments with more target points (as
shown in Fig. 24), and the results were consistent with previous realworld tests, confirming the reliability of the findings. Compared to the
simulation results, TD3 performed well during training but underperformed in the real-world environment. Upon analysis, we found that
TD3’s strategy was heavily influenced by the training environment and
reward function, particularly by its use of large-radius turns to optimize
rewards, which led to collisions with obstacles in the real world. In
contrast, other methods did not exhibit this behavior, with KGDDPG
demonstrating better generalization to the real-world environment.

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Peng Qin: Writing – original draft, Validation, Software, Methodology, Conceptualization. Tao Zhao: Resources, Project administration,
Investigation, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
influence the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported in part by Sichuan Science and Technology
Program under Grant 2024ZYD0029, in part by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China under Grant 62473273.
Data availability
No data was used for the research described in the article.

15

Knowledge-Based Systems 311 (2025) 113087

P. Qin and T. Zhao

References

[15] H. Cui, T. Peng, R. Han, J. Han, L. Liu, Path-based multi-hop reasoning over
knowledge graph for answering questions via adversarial reinforcement learning,
Knowl.-Based Syst. 276 (2023) 110760.
[16] L. Illanes, X. Yan, R.T. Icarte, S.A. McIlraith, Symbolic plans as high-level
instructions for reinforcement learning, in: Proceedings of the International
Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling, Vol. 30, 2020, pp. 540–550.
[17] L. Guan, S. Sreedharan, S. Kambhampati, Leveraging approximate symbolic
models for reinforcement learning via skill diversity, in: International Conference
on Machine Learning, PMLR, 2022, pp. 7949–7967.
[18] Z. Mei, T. Zhao, X. Xie, Hierarchical fuzzy regression tree: A new gradient
boosting approach to design a TSK fuzzy model, Inform. Sci. 652 (2024) 119740.
[19] Z. Mei, T. Zhao, X. Gu, A dynamic evolving fuzzy system for streaming data
prediction, IEEE Trans. Fuzzy Syst. 32 (8) (2024) 4324–4337.
[20] T. Zhao, P. Qin, S. Dian, B. Guo, Fractional order sliding mode control for
an omni-directional mobile robot based on self-organizing interval type-2 fuzzy
neural network, Inform. Sci. 654 (2024) 119819.
[21] S. Tian, T. Zhao, Self-organizing interval type-2 function-link fuzzy neural
network control for uncertain manipulators under saturation: A predefined-time
sliding-mode approach, Appl. Soft Comput. 165 (2024).
[22] X. You, S. Dian, K. Liu, B. Guo, G. Xiang, Y. Zhu, Command filter-based adaptive fuzzy finite-time tracking control for uncertain fractional-order nonlinear
systems, IEEE Trans. Fuzzy Syst. 31 (1) (2023) 226–240.
[23] P. Ladosz, L. Weng, M. Kim, H. Oh, Exploration in deep reinforcement learning:
A survey, Inf. Fusion 85 (2022) 1–22.
[24] X. Li, X. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Jin, Y. Huang, J.J. Zhang, F.-Y. Wang, SADRL:
Merging human experience with machine intelligence via supervised assisted
deep reinforcement learning, Neurocomputing 467 (2022) 300–309.
[25] Z. Hu, Y. Zheng, J. Pan, Grasping living objects with adversarial behaviors using
inverse reinforcement learning, IEEE Trans. Robot. 39 (2) (2023) 1151–1163.
[26] F. Zhao, Q. Wang, L. Wang, An inverse reinforcement learning framework with
the Q-learning mechanism for the metaheuristic algorithm, Knowl.-Based Syst.
265 (2023) 110368.
[27] J. Peng, Y. Fan, G. Yin, R. Jiang, Collaborative optimization of energy management strategy and adaptive cruise control based on deep reinforcement learning,
IEEE Trans. Transp. Electrification 9 (1) (2023) 34–44.
[28] Z. Mao, M. Xia, B. Jiang, D. Xu, P. Shi, Incipient fault diagnosis for high-speed
train traction systems via stacked generalization, IEEE Trans. Cybern. 52 (8)
(2022) 7624–7633.
[29] B. Qin, Y. Nojima, H. Ishibuchi, S. Wang, Realizing deep high-order TSK fuzzy
classifier by ensembling interpretable zero-order TSK fuzzy subclassifiers, IEEE
Trans. Fuzzy Syst. 29 (11) (2021) 3441–3455.
[30] P. Lou, K. Xu, X. Jiang, Z. Xiao, J. Yan, Path planning in an unknown
environment based on deep reinforcement learning with prior knowledge, J.
Intell. Fuzzy Syst. 41 (6) (2021) 5773–5789.
[31] V.R.F. Miranda, A.A. Neto, G.M. Freitas, L.A. Mozelli, Generalization in deep
reinforcement learning for robotic navigation by reward shaping, IEEE Trans.
Ind. Electron. 71 (6) (2024) 6013–6020.

[1] Q. Zou, Q. Sun, L. Chen, B. Nie, Q. Li, A comparative analysis of LiDAR SLAMbased indoor navigation for autonomous vehicles, IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp.
Syst. 23 (7) (2022) 6907–6921.
[2] X. Liu, G.V. Nardari, F. Cladera, Y. Tao, A. Zhou, T. Donnelly, C. Qu, S.W.
Chen, R.A.F. Romero, C.J. Taylor, V. Kumar, Large-scale autonomous flight with
real-time semantic SLAM under dense forest canopy, IEEE Robot. Autom. Lett.
7 (2) (2022) 5512–5519.
[3] L. Xia, D. Meng, J. Zhang, D. Zhang, Z. Hu, Visual-inertial simultaneous
localization and mapping: Dynamically fused point-line feature extraction and
engineered robotic applications, IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 71 (2022) 1–11.
[4] Y. Jang, J. Baek, S. Han, Hindsight intermediate targets for mapless navigation
with deep reinforcement learning, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron. 69 (11) (2022)
11816–11825.
[5] E. Marchesini, A. Farinelli, Discrete deep reinforcement learning for mapless
navigation, in: 2020 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
ICRA, 2020, pp. 10688–10694.
[6] W. Zhang, Y. Zhang, N. Liu, K. Ren, P. Wang, IPAPRec: A promising tool for
learning high-performance mapless navigation skills with deep reinforcement
learning, IEEE/ASME Trans. Mechatronics 27 (6) (2022) 5451–5461.
[7] M. Gheisarnejad, M.H. Khooban, An intelligent non-integer PID controller-based
deep reinforcement learning: Implementation and experimental results, IEEE
Trans. Ind. Electron. 68 (4) (2021) 3609–3618.
[8] Y.-C. Liu, C.-Y. Huang, DDPG-based adaptive robust tracking control for aerial
manipulators with decoupling approach, IEEE Trans. Cybern. 52 (8) (2022)
8258–8271.
[9] L. Xie, Y. Miao, S. Wang, P. Blunsom, Z. Wang, C. Chen, A. Markham, N. Trigoni,
Learning with stochastic guidance for robot navigation, IEEE Trans. Neural Netw.
Learn. Syst. 32 (1) (2021) 166–176.
[10] B. Li, Z. Huang, T.W. Chen, T. Dai, Y. Zang, W. Xie, B. Tian, K. Cai, MSN: Mapless
short-range navigation based on time critical deep reinforcement learning, IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 24 (8) (2023) 8628–8637.
[11] M. Liu, F. Zhao, J. Yin, J. Niu, Y. Liu, Reinforcement-tracking: An effective
trajectory tracking and navigation method for autonomous urban driving, IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 23 (7) (2022) 6991–7007.
[12] T. Liu, L. Lei, K. Zheng, K. Zhang, Autonomous platoon control with integrated
deep reinforcement learning and dynamic programming, IEEE Internet Things J.
10 (6) (2023) 5476–5489.
[13] Y. Tian, X. Cao, K. Huang, C. Fei, Z. Zheng, X. Ji, Learning to drive like human
beings: A method based on deep reinforcement learning, IEEE Trans. Intell.
Transp. Syst. 23 (7) (2022) 6357–6367.
[14] S. Zhou, X. Dai, H. Chen, W. Zhang, K. Ren, R. Tang, X. He, Y. Yu, Interactive
recommender system via knowledge graph-enhanced reinforcement learning, in:
Proceedings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’20, Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2020, pp. 179–188.

16

